A Pension of Culverts.

It began with a downpour and an updraft. Then a message from my old friend Jenny. We'd always had a friendship that could be described as a bit "will they, won't they?", but with me being in favour of "will" and her coming down rather more strongly on the side of "won't". I'd pushed my luck at a Christmas party and hadn't heard from her since, so I was surprised to read that she wanted to meet for coffee on Sunday. 

I stood on the street and stared at my phone as the rain viciously blattered at my trousers. The wind curled needily into the gaps in my clothing and got between my bones. Jenny had always liked the rain; she was the kind of woman that'd do that kind of thing out of sheer perversity. That was probably what drew me to her. It was inevitable that she'd become an artist, after her parents had died during our first year of university. Not because she was especially talented, but because she could afford it. Irritatingly, she was quite successful with it. A small group of colourful 3d-printed "meta-sculptures" had made her one of the more talked-about figures of the London scene for a couple of months three years ago, and she knew how to make the right connections.

What the hell. I'd meet her. I knew it was a bad idea, but that didn't matter. Of course I was going to meet her. 

*

When I got to the cafe, it was empty. There was a tingling in my neck.

I sat down with my flat white and heard a growl from under the table. Then something huge sunk its teeth into my leg. I screamed a bit and did a sort of pneumatic pumping writhe, which swept the condiments to the floor. Some deeper part of my brain took the reins and I plunged my fork down into the top of the black, furry head that was wrapped around my knee. The word 'jaguar' was hanging about in the front of my mind. I still seemed to be stabbing downwards and to the right, as if I was mashing potatoes. In the shadow I saw a flash of two eyes that looked like lemons. There was blood on my hand and wrist, I noticed. Some blood on the red leather seat. My leg was buzzing and I realised that it was no longer caught in anything, so I launched myself sideways out from the side of the table and glided satisfactorily across the tiles. I came to a rest just short of a well-groomed leg.

"What the fuck have you done to my cat, Gerald?"

That was Jenny's voice. I followed it upwards and discovered the owner looking down at me. Then I realised I was quite unintentionally staring up her skirt, and that just made her look even more disapproving so I averted my eyes. I've always been bashful in coffee shops. 

"What the fuck has your bloody jaguar done to my bloody leg, more like!" I sputtered, pained. I gestured with a shaking arm towards the dining booth that was the creature's lair. It was upright and staring at my neck, but it didn't seem to be moving. 

"Actually she's a melanistic leopard. Yes, I am sorry about your leg, as a matter of fact... but I had to let her do that, or the whole thing would have been meaningless. I think you'll probably have to have it taken off, I'm afraid. You're bleeding quite a lot."

She was right. It was too wiry and angular to be a jaguar, now that I got a better look at it.

"The... whole thing would have been meaningless? What whole thing?" I asked.

"My current project." she explained, patting the hand-held video camera that I now saw she'd been pointing at me. She turned it off with every sign of satisfaction in a job well done. 

"It's a series of pieces about what happens when you let yourself do the things that everyone thinks about doing but which society has conditioned you never to actually carry out."

"Like setting leopards on people you don't like, you mean? Because I-"

"Oh, Gerald, I don't not like you. It's just that it came into my head, and then I kept thinking about it. And once it was stuck in there, it would have been dishonest of me not to include it in the work."

Perhaps I was just insensitive to the more subtle requirements of fine art, but- no. That wasn't it; I quite like art. She was just a loony.

"Anyway, I should go." she said with a slightly apologetic air. "I've called you an ambulance."

She calmly decoupled the leopard's leash from the post under the table and walked out of the cafe with the big black thing padding along behind her, looking for all the world as if it was in a quirky advert for some new perfume.

* 

I was lucky about the leg, it turned out. There'd be some scarring, but I'd probably walk without crutches in a few months. For the time being, though, I was laid out on a hard bed, staring at the ceiling and bored out of my mind. The ceiling was the clean, white, bubbly kind that had clearly had every possible interesting quality painstakingly removed at the design stage. I closed my eyes and listened to sounds of the ward. A nurse was explaining to the man Albert, whom I'd made the mistake of speaking to shortly after I arrived and had been doing my best to avoid ever since, that she hadn't taken his car keys - please don't use that language - and nobody else had taken them either, because he didn't, in fact, own a car. Albert was here because he had severely burned his arms somehow. I assume, based on my understanding of what I inferred to be his general motivation in life, that he did this himself in a deliberate attempt to make some kind of point about "benefits cheats". Suffice it to say, I would ordinarily have been glad to hear that a person like this had badly burned his arms, except that the fact that this was the cause of my having met him at all rather outweighed any pleasure I could get from that. 



"You seen my car keys, mate?"
"No Albert, I have not seen your car keys."
"Fuckin... alright then."

He wandered off. 

[I mentally wandered the corridors of the hospital]

[ something happens to trigger a change ]

[ upon being discharged (or before?) Gerald quits his job in order to do something (investigate the mystery?) ]



"Mr Fong? You have a visitor!"

It was Alex. Alex was my boss. Ordinarily she was quite chirpy, but now she looked tired and almost sallow. 

"Hi Gerald. Thought I'd drop by to see how you're doing."

"I'm doing OK, thanks, Alex. How's work?"

"I'll be honest, we're struggling. We need you back, Gerald. Nothing works."

"I don't know, Alex... look, I'm not sure when I'll be out of here. You might need to manage without me."

"The doctor said you'd be able to leave on Monday at the latest."

"I... Yeah. I'm sorry. I think- I don't want to come back. I like it and all, it's just... I have something I need to do."

She was looking crestfallen. I wondered whether I was making the right decision. Why was I doing this? I couldn't afford to quit my job and I knew it. Was I cracking up? Quite possibly. These weeks of bedbound captivity had been whirling my thoughts around my skull and amplifying the stresses and strains of my soul to the point where I could barely tell who I was talking to at any given time. There was a great black cloud of mist gathering inside my ears; every nerve felt as though it was being shouted at. But somewhere deep inside, I knew this had started long before. For years now I had been coasting - hardly even making physical contact with the world. Nothing affected me, and I affected nothing. Before the accident I would not have been surprised to wake up one morning and find that my hands simply passed straight through the door-handle. I was drifting away from life... still technically connected to it, but floating at a great distance; perhaps at the end of a long cord...

A change was needed. This was a drastic one, I knew, and probably not the right one. But I knew also that I could not continue along the same path any further. I had already gone too far.

I noticed I was fidgeting with the folds in the sheets. My hands were cold and gelatinous and I had been staring at nothing for a solid thirty seconds. I looked up. Alex had collected herself and was watching me.

"I understand, Gerald. If there's anything I can help with..."

"No! I mean... thanks. I'll let you know if I change my mind."

"You do that."


*

[ The party ]


*

[ unknown ]
A towel draped over the back of a chair tiredly, and empty bottles littered the kitchenscape as if cast aside by the spirit of Comus himself during a particularly hasty revel.   Somebody had placed all of the forks into a kind of Sapphic configuration on the carpet of the lounge.  There was half a pot of greek yoghurt under the coffee table. [ Twelve green penny whistles were arranged on the dresser, but I couldn't see any connection there.   ]

The windows had all been left wide open. I did spot the irony inherent in a housewarming party leaving the house colder than it had been before, but I was not in the best condition to appreciate it. I closed the windows.

I coughed vociferously at my shins; bent over like an old man. I was folded up like an envelope. "Put something on your feet", my father would have advised. Probably not a bad idea, but I left them bare out of stubbornness. Bloody freezing.
Amongst the general detritus, somebody had left a phone on the table, sitting next the second bowl of peanuts. I wasn't sure who it belonged to, so I picked it up and collapsed onto the sofa to investigate. There was a new message, and it didn't take long for my curiosity to get the better of me.  My heart lit up out of habit - it was from Jenny. But the words made me stop cold:

"Please dont hurt him i'm getting it for you i promise, i just need one more week x"

I shivered. I tried to imagine what this could mean, and there was no way I could come up with to make it sound anything other than very sinister. I frantically checked the phone for more information, but it was as if the whole thing had been wiped - other than that one message, I could find nothing at all. I needed to speak to Jenny about this. I wanted to believe it was just some kind of joke, but it didn't seem like her style. I tried to call her from the phone in my hand, but there was nothing doing. When I checked, it turned out there was no sim card.

"Jenny! If this is one of your stupid art projects, I can tell you right now I'm not-"

I stopped. She was sobbing.

"Jenny, what's the matter?"

There was a deep, unsteady breathing from the other end of the line. When her voice came, it sounded weedy and distant.

"Carl's gone."







*


Mr. Seed wore a pleasing grey suit. His muscular eyebrows gave the appearance of having been skillfully arranged, so as to betray nothing of developments within. In his left hand, he bore a carrot. As I drew near, he pocketed it and led me calmly to a table.

"Why do you have a carrot?" I asked. I am not generally known for my directness, but there are occasions for which I'm willing to make an exception. He chuckled a little and brushed past the topic with a disarming smoothness.

"Ahah, if I had a penny for every time I'd been asked that. No; what we're here to discuss, Mr Fong, is the subject of your employment. I understand that you have access to something that my organisation is... very interested in acquiring. Is this correct?"

He spoke softly and quickly, with a faint Chinese accent and an eager tone. I didn't have a clue what he was on about, but something told me that it really wouldn't be in my best interest to admit that.

"Perhaps," I hazarded. "That depends on many things."

"Of course. I understand. A man such as yourself does not get into this position by accident; it is a matter of strategy and of careful planning. Of course. You must consider all of your options. It would not be fair of me to suggest otherwise. But I can assure you, that if you are open to doing business, I believe we are able to make you a very competitive offer."

"What kind of an offer?"

Mr Seed gyrated his lips with a curious kind of distaste.

"I am going to give you a number. Please do not insult me by attempting to negotiate. My colleagues and I have discussed the matter and have settled on a sum which we believe will be sufficiently generous to assuage any reasonable doubts you may have. Unreasonable doubts... well - let us just say that I am sure you are a reasonable man. Now. When I give you this figure, you may leave it, or you may take it. Those are the two options that are available to you. I strongly suggest... that you take it."

While speaking, Mr Seed had retrieved the carrot from his pocket and started to write on it with a biro. He finished, and held out the vegetable to me. I viewed it with suspicion. In a beautiful blue copperplate, against the orange backdrop, was written a very, very large number.
I paused for a moment, and tried to weigh up my options. It was difficult to make any headway with this because I still didn't have the foggiest idea about what I was being asked to do. Given the circumstances, it would almost certainly be a terrible idea to take the carrot. It was still being thrust out in front of my nose, at the end of what suddenly seemed like a very long arm. The tip wobbled a little.
I think I would still be there now, had my default decision-making procedure not kicked in at the last minute. My default decision-making procedure, it turns out, is the one that says "fuck it, what have you got to lose". When I thought back to this moment afterwards, I realised that it's probably fair to say that of all my personality traits, this is the one that has got me into the most trouble over the years. My perpetual state of having nothing to lose has been reliably maintained by my making bad decisions purely based on the fact that I have nothing to lose. But as I now know: there's nothing, and then there's Nothing. In times like these it takes a wiser man than me to spot the difference. I took the carrot.

After a slightly reverent pause, Mr Seed broke into a broad grin. I smiled back - a little uncertainly, but it seemed the thing to do. This just made him beam even more widely, and then finally he broke into a kind of oily guffaw that didn't seem friendly at all. I was on the point of retracting the whole thing and telling him to get stuffed, when he suddenly spun around on the toe of his shoe and skipped off around a corner. 

*

[ Gerald meets someone and is carrying the carrot. Gerald uses the same response as Mr Seed. ]

He frowned.
"Why do you have a carrot?"

"If I had a penny for every time I'd been asked that."

"No, seriously. Why do you have a carrot?"

"Well, I didn't want the stick."



*



